nanoparquet 0.4.0 post (#722)
tidyverse/tidyverse.org: content/blog/nanoparquet-0-4-0/index.Rmd

    configurable type mappings in `write_parquet()`, and a new
    `append_parquet()`.

photo:
  url: https://www.pexels.com/photo/person-running-in-the-hallway-796545/
  author: Michael Foster

# one of: "deep-dive", "learn", "package", "programming", "roundup", or "other"
categories: [package]
tags: [parquet]
---

<!--
TODO:
* [x] Look over / edit the post's title in the yaml
* [x] Edit (or delete) the description; note this appears in the Twitter card
* [x] Pick category and tags (see existing with `hugodown::tidy_show_meta()`)
* [x] Find photo & update yaml metadata
* [x] Create `thumbnail-sq.jpg`; height and width should be equal
* [x] Create `thumbnail-wd.jpg`; width should be >5x height
* [x] `hugodown::use_tidy_thumbnails()`
* [x] Add intro sentence, e.g. the standard tagline for the package
* [x] `usethis::use_tidy_thanks()`
-->

We're thrilled to announce the release of [nanoparquet](
  https://nanoparquet.r-lib.org/) 0.4.0. nanoparquet is an R package that
reads and writes Parquet files.

You can install it from CRAN with:

```r
install.packages("nanoparquet")
```

This blog post will show the most important new features of nanoparquet

> 0.4.0: You can see a full list of changes in the [release notes]({ TODO }).

Reviewer: Still TODO here in case you missed it

## Brand new `read_parquet()`

nanoparquet 0.4.0 comes with a completely rewritten Parquet reader.
The new version has an architecture that is easier to embed into R, and

> facilitates great features, like `append_parquet()` and the new

Reviewer: ```suggestion
facilitates fantastic new features, like `append_parquet()` and the new
```

`col_select` argument. (More to come!) The new reader is also much faster,
see the "Benchmarks" chapter.

## Read a subset of columns

`read_parquet()` now has a new argument called `col_select`, that lets you
read a subset of the columns from the Parquet file. Unlike for row oriented
file formats like CSV, this means that the reader never needs to touch the
columns that are not needed for analysis. Reading a handful of columns only
always takes the same amount of time, no matter how many more columns the

> Parquet file might have!

Reviewer: I get what you're trying to say here but "same amount of time as what?". So maybe just something like "This makes it much faster to read only the columns you care about"

Author: Yeah, I rewrite this, I think it is better now.

file first:

```{r read_parquet_schema}
read_parquet_schema("flights.parquet")
```

The output of `read_parquet_schema()` also shows you the R type that
nanoparquet will use for each column.

## Appending to Parquet files

The new `append_parquet()` function makes it easy to append new data to
a Parquet file, without first reading the whole file into memory.
The schema of the file and the schema new data must match of course. Lets
merge `nycflights13::flights` and `nycflights23::flights`:

```{r append_parquet}
file.copy("flights.parquet", "allflights.parquet", overwrite = TRUE)
append_parquet(nycflights23::flights, "allflights.parquet")
```

`read_parquet_info()` returns the most basic information about a Parquet
file:

```{r read_parquet_info}
read_parquet_info("flights.parquet")
read_parquet_info("allflights.parquet")
```

Note that you should probably still create a backup copy of the original
file when using `append_parquet()`. If the appending process is interrupted
by a power failure, then you might end up with an incomplete and invalid
Parquet file.

## Schemas and type conversions

In nanoparquet 0.4.0 `write_parquet()` takes a `schema` argument that

> can customize the R to Parquet type mappings. E.g. by default

Reviewer: ```suggestion
can customize the R to Parquet type mappings. For example, by default
```

`write_parquet()` writes an R character vector as a `STRING` Parquet type.

> If you'd like to write a certain character column as an `ENUM` type

Reviewer: Add footnote saying that an ENUM is kind of like an R factor?

instead, you'll need to specify that in `schema`:

```{r schema}
write_parquet(
  nycflights13::flights,
  "newflights.parquet",
  schema = parquet_schema(carrier = "ENUM")
)
read_parquet_schema("newflights.parquet")
```

Here we wrote the `carrier` column as `ENUM`, and left the other other
columns to use the default type mappings.

> See the [`nanoparquet-types`](

Reviewer: BTW you should be able to write `?nanoparquet-types` and downlit will autolink.

Author: That does not work for me, probably because of the dash.
